new rule: Element with presentational children has no focusable content (#1493)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/presentational-children-no-focusable-content-307n5z.md

</p>
```

#### Passed Example 3

This element with `menuitemcheckbox` role has an `input` element as a descendant. Because the `input` is disabled it is not included in [sequential focus navigation][].

```html
<ul role="menu">
	<li role="menuitemcheckbox" aria-checked="true">
		<input type="checkbox" disabled checked />
		Sort by Last Modified
	</li>
</ul>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

The `button` element has a [child][] `span` element that is included in [sequential focus navigation][].

```html
<button>
	Save
	<span aria-label="save options" aria-expanded="false" tabindex="0">▼</span>
</button>
```

#### Failed Example 2

This element with `checkbox` role has an `a` element as a [child][]. Because the `a` element has an `href` attribute, it is included in [sequential focus navigation][].

```html
<p role="checkbox" aria-checked="false" tabindex="0">I agree to the <a href="/terms">terms of service</a></p>
```

#### Failed Example 3

This element with `menuitemcheckbox` role has a checkbox as a child. Because the checkbox is not disabled, it is included in [sequential focus navigation][].

```html
<ul role="menu">
	<li role="menuitemcheckbox" aria-checked="true">

> 		<input type="checkbox" checked />

Author: ```suggestion
		<input type="checkbox" checked role="none" />
```

---
id: 307n5z
name: Element with presentational children has no focusable content
rule_type: atomic
description: |

>   This rule checks that elements with a role that makes it children presentational do not contain focusable elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This rule checks that elements with a role that makes its children presentational do not contain focusable elements.
```

accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:1.3.1: # Info and Relationships (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag20:4.1.2: # Name, Role, Value (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Wilco Fiers
---

## Applicability

> The rule applies to any HTML or SVG element with a [semantic role][] that defines its [children][child] to be [presentational children][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule applies to any HTML or SVG element with a [semantic role][] that defines its [children][child] to be [presentational children][].
```
https://www.w3.org/2020/10/22-act-r-minutes.html#item04

## Expectation

None of the target elements have [descendants][] in the [flat tree][] that are part of [sequential focus navigation][].

## Assumptions

_There are currently no assumptions_

## Accessibility Support

Several major browsers ignore the WAI-ARIA requirements on [presentational children][] for most or sometimes all roles. Because some browsers do, and others do not implement presentational children, there can be big differences between browsers.

## Background

Elements with a [semantic role][] that has [presentational children][] will not have any descendants in the accessibility tree. If any of those descendants are included in [sequential focus navigation][], this causes the focus to land on an element that has no corresponding node in the [accessibility tree][]. The result is that there is no programmatic name or role available for assistive technologies. There are other problems that can come from [presentational children][] too. These must be tested separately.

> 

Reviewer: Wondering whether we should include a list of roles with presentational children here (like we do for some of the form field rules targeting "role that inherit from input/select and have no required context that inherit from input/select".

Author: Maybe, lets leave this open, see what other reviewers think.

- [Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.1: Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/info-and-relationships)
- [Understanding Success Criterion 4.1.2: Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/name-role-value)
- [WAI-ARIA 1.1 Presentational Children][presentational children]

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

> Neither `button` element has no [descendants][] that are included in [sequential focus navigation][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
None of these `button` elements has [descendants][] that are included in [sequential focus navigation][].
```

```html

> <button>Save</button> <button aria-label="save options" aria-expanded="false">▼</button>

Reviewer: Shouldn't that be 2 separate examples?

```

#### Passed Example 2

This element with `checkbox` role has no [descendants][] that are included in [sequential focus navigation][]. Instead the link to the terms of service is adjacent, and `aria-labelledby` is used to provide its [accessible name][].

```html
<p id="terms">
	<span role="checkbox" aria-checked="false" tabindex="0" aria-labelledby="terms">
		I agree to the
	</span>
	<a href="/terms">terms of service</a>
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 3

This element with `menuitemcheckbox` role has an `input` element as a descendant. Because the `input` is disabled it is not included in [sequential focus navigation][].

> **Note**: The `input` checkbox has a `role` [attribute value][] of `none` to ensure it is ignored by browsers that to not support [presentational children][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The `input` checkbox has a `role` [attribute value][] of `none` to ensure it is ignored by browsers that do not support [presentational children][].
```

```html
<ul role="menu">
	<li role="menuitemcheckbox" aria-checked="true">
		<input type="checkbox" role="none" disabled checked />
		Sort by Last Modified
	</li>
</ul>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

> The `button` element has a [child][] `span` element that is included in [sequential focus navigation][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `button` element has a [child][] `span` element that is included in [sequential focus navigation][].
```

---
id: 307n5z
name: Element with presentational children has no focusable content
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that elements with a role that makes its children presentational do not contain focusable elements.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:1.3.1: # Info and Relationships (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag20:4.1.2: # Name, Role, Value (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed

>     inapplicable: further testing needed

Reviewer 2: Would this rule also map to [2.4.3 Focus order?](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#focus-order) There is part in the understanding doc that goes:

> Focusable components need to receive focus in **an order that preserves meaning and operability** only when navigation sequences affect meaning and operability.

Although operable, elements which are not announced by the AT are meaningless so they fail the above statement.

Author: You are right that this effects the meaning of the focusable element, but it isn't the order that is the problem, so I don't think 2.4.3 applies here.

input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Wilco Fiers
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any HTML or SVG element with a [semantic role][] that defines its [children][child] to be [presentational children][].

## Expectation

None of the target elements have [descendants][] in the [flat tree][] that are part of [sequential focus navigation][].

## Assumptions

> _There are currently no assumptions_

Author: ```suggestion
This rule assumes that elements that are part of [sequential focus navigation][] do not immediately blur, or move focus to another element. Such elements will fail this rule, but may still satisfy success criteria 1.3.1 and 4.1.2.
```

> This rule assumes that elements that are part of [sequential focus navigation][] do not immediately blur, or move focus to another element. Such elements will fail this rule, but may still satisfy success criteria 1.3.1 and 4.1.2.

Reviewer 2: As per my previous comment about Focus order. If true, the criterion should be added.
```suggestion
This rule assumes that elements that are part of [sequential focus navigation][] do not immediately blur, or move focus to another element. Such elements will fail this rule, but may still satisfy success criteria 1.3.1, 2.4.3, and 4.1.2.
```

## Accessibility Support

> Several major browsers ignore the WAI-ARIA requirements on [presentational children][] for most or sometimes all roles. Because some browsers do, and others do not implement presentational children, there can be big differences between browsers.

Reviewer 2: My preference, feel free to ignore it

```suggestion
Several major browsers ignore the WAI-ARIA requirements on [presentational children][] for most or sometimes all roles. Because some browsers do, and others do not implement presentational children, there can be significant differences between browsers.
```

```html
<button>Save</button> <button aria-label="save options" aria-expanded="false">▼</button>
```

#### Passed Example 2

This element with `checkbox` role has no [descendants][] that are included in [sequential focus navigation][]. Instead the link to the terms of service is adjacent, and `aria-labelledby` is used to provide its [accessible name][].

```html
<p id="terms">
	<span role="checkbox" aria-checked="false" tabindex="0" aria-labelledby="terms">
		I agree to the
	</span>
	<a href="/terms">terms of service</a>
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 3

This element with `menuitemcheckbox` role has an `input` element as a descendant. Because the `input` is disabled it is not included in [sequential focus navigation][].

**Note**: The `input` checkbox has a `role` [attribute value][] of `none` to ensure it is ignored by browsers that do not support [presentational children][].

```html
<ul role="menu">
	<li role="menuitemcheckbox" aria-checked="true">
		<input type="checkbox" role="none" disabled checked />
		Sort by Last Modified
	</li>
</ul>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

> This `button` element has a [child][] `span` element that is included in [sequential focus navigation][].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This `button` element has a [child][] `span` element. Because the `span` element has a `tabindex` attribute with value of `0`, it is included in [sequential focus navigation][].
```
I think it is worth explaining why in the description.
